
BPH 2021-05-07

I wrote the python script

  get_actual_avg_weather_all_health_regions.py

to download and average weather data ahead of time for the dashboard.
I found that multiple weather stations were needed to guarantee data
availability in the 2016-2021 timeframe.  So, I updated the static
data file:

../health_regions_static_data.csv

to include three stations [climate_id, climate_id_alt,
climate_id_alt2] whenever there was a problem finding data for the
original station (file was not on the server) or the data was very
sparse from a particular station (more than 5 missing data points in a
month).

The file:

all-canadian-weather-stations.csv

which I found here (as "Station Inventory EN.csv"):

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1WJCDEU34c60IfOnG4rv5EPZ4IhhW9vZH

and its filtered version that only includes stations with daily data
up to 2016:

all-canadian-weather-stations_dly-through-2016.csv

was very useful to find stations near the original one (found by
Shafika).  I sorted by [province, lat, lon] to make finding these
stations easier.  I tried to select only stations that had daily data
available in the desired timeframe (see the "DLY First Year" and "DLY
Last Year" columns).

Also useful are the maps of health regions:

https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/82-402-x/2013003/map-cart-eng.htm

*******************************
At this point the stations in the static file can get successfully
get all data for all health regions for 2016-2021. See:

weather-data-availability_health-regions_2016-2021.txt
*******************************

There are a few places where the coverage within the month fell below
my arbitrary tolerance of 5 missing data points.  For these, if
niether of the other two stations could produce anything better, I let
the code accept the least-bad option (fewest missing data points), as
long as there were still about 10 data points in that month.  I will
do an interpolation on the whole file to fill all missing data points.

I also ran the script for 2010-present and there are plenty of places
missing data until, e.g., 2012.  See:

weather-data-availability_health-regions_2010-2021.txt

So if I wanted to get earlier data for some reason I'd need to use
that file to identify the missing places, and adjust the stations to
get better coverage.

